Improve Systemview documentation (#1242)
MicroEJ/docs: VEEPortingGuide/systemView.rst

* https://www.segger.com/products/development-tools/systemview/
* https://www.segger.com/downloads/jlink/UM08027

Pre-requisites
==============

Download and install SystemView: http://segger.com/downloads/systemview/.

Integrate SystemView in your VEE Port
=====================================

Apply FreeRTOS patch (for FreeRTOS v10 and under)
-------------------------------------------------

For FreeRTOS v11 and over, skip this step.

> Apply SystemView for FreeRTOS patch as described in the `documentation <https://www.segger.com/downloads/jlink/UM08027>`_.

Author: To be honest I was not sure to leave the link to this documentation. It is not really usefull to follow this documentation. @emoreac-microej what do you think ?

The patch is available in the Systemview installation folder: ``<installation_dir>/Src/Sample/FreeRTOSVxx``.

.. note::

>    Unofficial patches: FreeRTOS `v10.2.0 <https://forum.segger.com/index.php/Thread/6158-SOLVED-SystemView-Kernelpatch-for-FreeRTOS-10-2-0/?s=add3b0f6a33159b9c4b602da0082475afeceb89a>`_, FreeRTOS `v10.4.0 <https://kb.segger.com/FreeRTOS_with_SystemView#System-Configuration>`_

Reviewer: Your talking about the patch for v10.2, right? Not the link for the v10.4 patch?

Disable traces of recurrent OS events
-------------------------------------

> Most of the time, traces of the OS events like systick and queue operations are not relevant and may make the analysis of the application traces more complex.

Author: ```suggestion
Not all OS events are useful to the profiling analysis. It can be useful to filter out events from systick/queue/... in order to reduce the load and improve the stability of the analysis
```

On FreeRTOS, here are the changes to disable these traces:

#. In ``port.c``, comment the calls to all functions beginning by ``traceISR``.

> #. In ``queue.c``, comment the calls to all functions beginning by ``traceQUEUE_SEND``, ``traceQUEUE_RECEIVE`` and ``traceQUEUE_PEEK``.

Author: @rlouedec-microej I am not sure where you want the modification to be.
Should I comment these in SEGGER_SYSVIEW_FreeRTOS.h ?
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/30cf7422-cacf-440f-846b-2d34bd50141c)

> #. In ``queue.c``, comment the calls to all functions beginning by ``traceQUEUE_SEND``, ``traceQUEUE_RECEIVE`` and ``traceQUEUE_PEEK``.

Reviewer: Right, something like there.
You will probably need an empty define.
But anyway, do we really want to address this now?

> #. In ``queue.c``, comment the calls to all functions beginning by ``traceQUEUE_SEND``, ``traceQUEUE_RECEIVE`` and ``traceQUEUE_PEEK``.

Author: There is already an empty define in Systemview headers in case it is not defined before. So we can simply change the instruction to comment this out instead of port.c and queue.c files, it is easier only one file needs to be modified

            SEGGER_SYSVIEW_SetRAMBase(SYSVIEW_RAM_BASE);
         }

> 2. Add in your BSP the MicroEJ C module files for SystemView: `com.microej.clibrary.thirdparty#systemview`_. These files correspond to the sources provided in the installation folder of Systemview (``<installation_dir>/Src/SEGGER``) with a patch for MicroEJ.

Author: It is not only configuration, we also have modified things in the patch (for ex. to display the tasks names with [OS] or [MEJ],...)

> 2. Add in your BSP the MicroEJ C module files for SystemView: `com.microej.clibrary.thirdparty#systemview`_. These files correspond to the sources provided in the installation folder of Systemview (``<installation_dir>/Src/SEGGER``) with a patch for MicroEJ.

Reviewer: Ok, then maybe clarify?
```suggestion
2. Add in your BSP the MicroEJ C module files for SystemView: `com.microej.clibrary.thirdparty#systemview`_. These files correspond to the sources provided in the installation folder of Systemview (``<installation_dir>/Src/SEGGER``) with a patch for MicroEJ (recommended configuration, prefix for task names, …).
```

Open  ``FreeRTOSConfig.h`` and make these changes:

#. add ``#define INCLUDE_xTaskGetIdleTaskHandle 1``
#. add ``#define INCLUDE_pxTaskGetStackStart 1``
#. add ``#define INCLUDE_uxTaskPriorityGet 1``
#. comment the line ``#define traceTASK_SWITCHED_OUT()`` if defined 
#. comment the line ``#define traceTASK_SWITCHED_IN()`` if defined 
#. add ``#include "SEGGER_SYSVIEW_FreeRTOS.h"`` at the end of the file

Modify startup code of your BSP
-------------------------------

#. Enable SystemView on startup (before creating the first OS task): call ``SEGGER_SYSVIEW_Conf();``. The following include directive is required: ``#include "SEGGER_SYSVIEW.h"``.

#. Print the RTT block address to the serial port on startup: ``printf("SEGGER_RTT block address: %p\n", &(_SEGGER_RTT));``. The following include directive is required: ``#include "SEGGER_RTT.h"``.

   .. note::
      
      This is useful if SystemView does not automatically find the RTT block address.
      See section :ref:`systemview_no_rtt_block` for more details.

   .. note::

      You may also find the RTT block address in RAM by searching ``_SEGGER_RTT`` in the .map file generated with the firmware binary.

> #. Add a call to ``SEGGER_SYSVIEW_setMicroJVMTask((U32)pvCreatedTask);`` just after creating the OS task to register the MicroEJ Core Engine OS task. The handler to give is the one filled by the ``xTaskCreate`` function.

Author: It is generally in the main, which can be located anywhere and named differently in all the VEE Ports
https://github.com/MicroEJ/nxp-vee-imxrt1170-evk/blob/0bc78b3864da4d51c1a0b638f060cafe319d5779/bsp/vee/src/main/npavee.c#L218
https://github.com/MicroEJ/VEEPort-Realtek-Ameba-RTL8722DM/blob/ab9f3359a02aa8ddf778a312db7d70e6220e779d/Ameba-RTL8722DM-bsp/projects/microej/project/src/src_hp/main.c#L220

> #. Add a call to ``SEGGER_SYSVIEW_setMicroJVMTask((U32)pvCreatedTask);`` just after creating the OS task to register the MicroEJ Core Engine OS task. The handler to give is the one filled by the ``xTaskCreate`` function.

Reviewer: Ok, nevermind..

Maybe an option to improve the integration would be for us to have an extension mechanism in microej_main for our SystemView config to inject `SEGGER_SYSVIEW_setMicroJVMTask(getCurrentTask())`.

> #. Add a call to ``SEGGER_SYSVIEW_setMicroJVMTask((U32)pvCreatedTask);`` just after creating the OS task to register the MicroEJ Core Engine OS task. The handler to give is the one filled by the ``xTaskCreate`` function.

Author: It would be rather in the FreeeRTOS part I think because we need to call this function out of microej task

Check the other text files provided by SEGGER for more examples in the install directory ``SEGGER/SystemView_VXXX/Description``.

MicroEJ Core Engine OS Task
---------------------------

> The :ref:`MicroEJ Core Engine <core_engine>` task is the OS task that executes MicroEJ Java threads. 
> Once it is :ref:`started <core_engine_implementation>` (by calling ``SNI_startVM``), it executes the initialization code and rapidly starts to execute the MicroEJ Application main thread.
> At that time, the events produced by this OS task (context switch, semaphores, etc.) are dispatched to the current MicroEJ Java thread.
> Consequently, this OS task is useless when the MicroEJ Application is running.
> 
> SystemView for MicroEJ disables the visibility of this OS task when the MicroEJ Application is running. It simplifies the SystemView client debugging.

Reviewer: I know this was just moved but I suggest a few modifications to clarify:
```suggestion
The :ref:`MicroEJ Core Engine <core_engine>` task is the native OS task that executes the Core Engine internals & the Application threads.
The provided SystemView configuration replaces (splits) the execution segments of this OS task with (into) the different components that are actually executed. execution segments MicroEJ At that time,
This simplifies profiling analysis by exposing the execution segments of the Scheduler, Garbage Collector & the different Application threads (with their names, see section below) directly into SystemView's timeline, along with the other native OS tasks.
```
WDYT?

Reviewer 2: I agree with the suggestion.
There is a typo line 346 `executed. execution segments MicroEJ At that time,` -> executed. ~~execution segments MicroEJ At that time,~~

Reviewer: Thank you, I fixed it 👍
